## Set up GUI in Ubuntu LTS
date: 2020-11-17T20:38:05+02:00


## How to set up GUI in Ubuntu LTS

I have a project(c++ programming) in Linux system(I am bit familiar with Linux system, but current device is windows, I need to run ubuntu in my machine. And I need also graphic user interface for the project(I tried to use Aalto lyta or vdi, but users have no permission to install any library). This is for setup graphic user interface in Ubuntu LTS(ubuntu lts already installed).

Current version: Ubuntu 20.04 

### Installing WSL with GUI using VcXsrv
Windows Subsystem for Linux is a feature in Windows 10 where you can install and run Linux applications on Windows 10. Though keep in mind ...
[Dhanar Santika blog](https://medium.com/@dhanar.santika/installing-wsl-with-gui-using-vcxsrv-6f307e96fac0)

#### Download VcXsrv  
VcXsrv is a Windows X-server based on the xorg git sources.  
https://sourceforge.net/projects/vcxsrv/

#### XLaunch and setup
 - choose window option, One Large Window or Fullscreen option?
 - choose Start no client. 
 - check Disable access control.  
blank screen will appear. close or keep open.

#### install Desktop Environment for WSL 
 - XFCE4, KDE, GNOME, LXDE, Cinnamon, MATE, etc.

In ubuntu WSL
~~~
$ sudo apt-get install xfce4
$ echo 'export DISPLAY=:0.0' >> ~/.bashrc 
~~~
Exit and re-run ubuntu and start!
~~~
$ startxfce4
~~~

In Bash, open Windows File Explorer:
~~~
explorer.exe .
~~~


github allows the publishing of static pages associated with a particular repository (called project pages), which you can read more about at http://pages.github.com/,

I frequently use Sphinx (http://sphinx.pocoo.org/) for documenting projects, and would like to have my docs for a repo published to the gh-pages for that repo.

This strategy uses ideas from http://lucasbardella.com/report/hosting-your-sphinx-docs-in-github/, which uses a separate directory for docs and keeps the autogenerated stuff out of the main repo. This in contrast to suggestions on http://pages.github.com/, which does stuff within the repo directory. Using a separate docs dir made things easier for me to figure out and configure easier with the Sphinx makefile.

See http://daler.github.com/sphinxdoc-test for the Sphinx-generated version of this README, created using the commands documented in it...
